Add spdx3-validate and online validator to JSON-LD validation guide (#971)
spdx/spdx-3-model: serialization/jsonld/validation.md

The SPDX 3 [SHACL model][shacl] is designed to validate that a document is
semantically valid, that is that the way objects and properties are used
actually conforms to SPDX 3.

However, the SHACL model cannot validate the structure of a document,
since there are many different ways of encoding an RDF document,
many of which are not allowed by SPDX 3.

Known validators: [spdx3-validate](#spdx3-validate), [pyshacl](#pyshacl)

[shacl]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHACL

## Common errors

Here are some common errors worth looking into if an SPDX JSON-LD fails
validation.

### Serialized names

Serialized names take the form of either `profilename_ClassName` or
`profilename_propertyName`.

The prefix `profilename_` is derived from the name of the Profile and is always
written in lowercase letters.
There is an exception for the `Core` Profile, where serialized names omit the
prefix entirely.

For example,

- `dataset_datasetType` for a `datasetType` Property in the `Dataset` Profile
- `expandedlicensing_CustomLicense` for a `CustomLicense` Class in the
  `ExpandedLicensing` Profile
- `Person` for a Class `Person` in the `Core` Profile (no prefix)

### Cardinality

> A property with a cardinality greater than 1 must be represented as an array in

Reviewer: This is not required by json-ld and is not supported by json-ld libraries. Meaning that (most, if not all) json-ld serializers would omit the brackets in case of a single edge. So this may break for anyone using a non-custom-made json-ld serializer. Do we really require this?

Author: This has to be enforced, or it will not pass the Schema validation in the CI.

You can try take this [Software Profile example1.json](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-examples/blob/master/software/example1/spdx3.0/example1.json), remove the brackets from one of the `to`s, and run:

```shell
check-jsonschema \
        --verbose \
        --schemafile https://spdx.org/schema/3.0.1/spdx-json-schema.json \
        "example1.json"
```

(The command is taken from [bin/check-examples.sh](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/develop/bin/check-examples.sh) which will be run by [a validation workflow](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/develop/.github/workflows/validate_examples.yml) in spdx-spec repo)

Reviewer: Yes, but that constraint is imposed by the json schema, it's not required by the json-ld spec. To quote:
> Values of terms associated with an @set or @list container will always be represented in the form of an [array](https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#list) when a document is processed—even if there is just a single value that would otherwise be optimized to a non-array form.

The current rule in the schema is:
```json
"allOf": [
    {
            "to": {
                "oneOf": [
                    {
                        "type": "array",
                        "minItems": 1,
                        "items": {
                            "$ref": "#/$defs/prop_Relationship_to"
                        }
                    }
                ]
            }
        },
    }
]
```

If we change it to:
```json
"allOf": [
    {
            "to": {
                "oneOf": [
                    {
                        "type": "array",
                        "minItems": 1,
                        "items": {
                            "$ref": "#/$defs/prop_Relationship_to"
                        }
                    },
                    {
                        "$ref": "#/$defs/prop_Relationship_to"
                    }
                ]
            }
        },
    }
]
```
It'll work!

The rule is already nested inside a "oneOf". I don't know why it wasn't utilized.

@JPEWdev ?

Reviewer: @bact 
After a long discussion with @JPEWdev and @goneall on the implementers call, I understand that this constraint is required. That's because the canonical serialization section in the original "Model and serializations" document isn't meant to describe a JSON-LD format but a proprietary JSON that was defined by the SPDX 3 community as a compromise between pure JSON and JSON-LD. On one hand, it allows to deserialize a canonical SPDX 3 JSON into RDF using standard JSON-LD libraries. On the other, it may only be serialized using proprietary tools which follow the specifications listed in this document.

The confusion arises from using the term JSON-LD in the context of serialization. JSON-LD should only be mentioned in relation to deserialization of "SPDX 3 JSON" and we should avoid using the term "SPDX 3 JSON-LD".

I opened an issue to discuss how to make this more concise and clearer: https://github.com/spdx/spdx-3-model/issues/1008

Author: Thank you. Until the schema has changed to what you have proposed, the documentation has to be kept as it is, so it will not break. (Please be noted that the text itself is already there, this PR just moves it up from the bottom)

After the schema gets updated, we can update this section of the doc in another PR.

JSON, regardless of the actual number of values it holds.

### Casing

> Note that SPDX 3 may use different casing than other vocabularies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that SPDX 3 may use different casing than vocabularies in previous versions.
```
